When Martin Luther King advocated for true justice, he stressed “the need for courageous, intelligent, and dedicated leadership...Leaders of sound integrity. Leaders not in love with publicity, but in love with justice...Leaders who can subject their particular egos to the greatness of the cause.".   Because we believe in supporting our younger leaders in the political mainframe, and letting them be the instruments of change, we are so proud to propose the motion that this house would lower the voting age in the United States to 16 years of age. Two things in this speech: First, some notes on framing, then the first 2 substantives. 
Let’s define the major term in this motion: voting age. We defines voting age as the minimum age necessary for U.S. citizens to vote in national elections, as many states already allow state-wide voting for youth above 16. Next, let’s define our mechanism of voting for 16 and 17-year-olds. To allow these adolescents to vote in a national context, we would provide similar requirements to adult voters: 16-17 year olds will be unable to vote if they are serving felony reform ,if they are declared mentally incapacitated by court, or if they are not a U.S. citizen and resident of the state they reside in. We would implement civic curriculum within schools to ensure adolescents are informed, similar to a format of sexual education or driver’s education. [SB1] Finally, let’s verify burdens. For the opposition side to win, they must prove that voters between 16-18 will negatively affect the democratic manner of national decisions. Today, as the proposition side of the motion, we will proudly prove that giving these adolescents a voice will elevate the democracy of our nation.With that being said, let’s begin on our first substantive: the incentive and result of political awareness. [Q1]
Our first substantive is on political awareness. Three layers of analysis here.
Our first layer of analysis is on how allowing 16 year olds to vote increases incentive for them to be politically aware.
It's common sense that people will care more politically when they know they have actual power over the outcome, giving them a reason to stay up to date politically. Tufts University’s Center for Information & Research on Civic Learning and Engagement finds that young people who believe they can influence political outcomes are significantly more likely to follow political news, discuss politics, and vote. The Inter American Development bank finds that individuals who are eligible to vote pay more attention to campaigns and policy debates during election cycles than those who are not yet eligible. [SB2] This is seen empirically as in Belguim 16–17-year-olds who were newly enfranchised showed higher political interest and knowledge than slightly younger peers who were not eligible. [Q2]
Our second layer of analysis is on how allowing 16 year olds to vote is correlated to increased civic education.
This is seen empirically. When the voting age was lowered to 16, in Austria, it was paired with awareness-raising campaigns and enhanced civic education in schools to help first-time voters understand voting participation. The Guardian writes that in the United Kingdom, where legislation is underway to lower the voting age to 16, the UK Electoral Commission has announced plans for expanding democratic education starting at age 11 to prepare students for voting at 16. [SB3] This is crucial, as the immediate result of allowing students to vote creates an extra incentive for students to pay more attention, and for adults to be more invested in this civic education and to teach it more meaningfully. This furthers the civic education and understanding, creating a more politically aware society. [Q3]
Our third layer of analysis is on how these skills have a lifelong impact.
Research has shown that those who vote earlier are more likely to carry this as a lifelong habit. A journal from Oxford Academic found that in places that lowered the voting age, youth voters were at least as engaged as older first-time voters and, in some contexts, showed stronger long-term civic attitudes and higher turnout over time. At our lowest ground, we see that the youth, when allowed to vote, will do so at a similar level to their older counterparts, and at our highest ground, we see a continued impact of consistent voting.

Our second substantive is on the principle of democracy. Three layers of analysis here.
Our first layer of analysis is what the principle of democracy is, and why it should be a priori to the practical arguments presented in this debate
A democracy is at its strongest when everyone is allowed to be heard, not only through advocacy and speech, but also at a level where they are able to make tangible moves towards change, through voting. Voting on a national level allows people to have their input be considered in choosing the Senate and House of Representatives, people who have the power to enact policies that resonate with citizens. When this principle is not upheld, people become disillusioned with the idea that they cannot create true change, and this disillusionment from feeling unheard leads to less civic participation, stifling democracy. The principle of upholding democracy needs to be considered first before the practical impacts in this debate because the impacts that come from this motion will lack social legitimacy if they are not implemented with fair representation, thus harming society through a lack of civic participation. 
Our second layer of analysis is how preventing 16 year olds from voting harms this principle 
Preventing 16 year olds from voting harms this principle because it is undemocratic and unfair. Contrary to popular belief, 16 year olds are cognitively eligible to vote. A national institute of health study found that cognitive capacity surrounding logical thinking reached adult levels around age 16. The cognitive eligibility of a 16 year old is on par with an adult, yet only adults are allowed to vote, which is principly unfair. In addition to that, students such as sophomores and juniors take civic classes, which is nationally required. This means that such students are more informed and engaged than the average adult, who has gone many years without this education. The voices of these 16 year olds become fundamentally unheard because they are not able to vote for people that represent their voices, further stifling democracy. 
Our third layer of analysis is how allowing 16 year olds to vote upholds this principle
16 year olds are impacted by policy and laws surrounding education, gun control, climate change, and more. They deserve a direct path to be able to have their voices be considered when such policies are being passed. Giving 16 year olds the right to vote upholds the principle of democracy by allowing for these people to be able to choose the representation of those who govern them. 16 year olds currently do want to share their voices. For example, 16 year Lane Murdock started the national school walkout to protest school shootings. At 17, Sophia Kianni organized climate protests and walkouts. Time and time again, people under the age of 18 have demonstrated that they do care about policies that impact them through symbolic advocacy. It is time to give these students formal influence when it comes to politics. Allowing a generation to vote for change that will impact them in the future leads to broader perspectives that speak with the future of a nation they will grow up with in mind. However, more than that, giving such people the chance to speak up allows the principle of democracy to prevail on the same mechanism of voting, creating a more represented, more principled, and less silenced society.  
To suppress youth voices is to mute the audible rhythms of the triangle, to tune out their place in the orchestra. Vote for the microphone, vote for the deserved voice of the youth, vote for the proposition. Thus, we are so proud to propose. 
