Imagine walking through a supermarket, trying to buy your weekly groceries. But at every turn, a pesky salesman stops you to promote the fruits and vegetables he’s selling; they’re juicier, tastier, higher quality he says, and you trust him. Unfortunately it turns out his produce is all rotten, full of pesticides and jacked full of inorganic supplements. That's exactly how political advertising operates; on the surface, you see genuine promises to solve the nation’s problems. In reality, they are vicious lies, propagated to benefit wealthy elites and manipulate the public, lies that have spread far and wide through the development of social media. Because we believe in the truth and in democracy, that we are so proud to propose the motion that this house, as a democratic government, would ban political advertising on social media platforms. [SB1]
Two things on this case: First, a few notes on framing, then our two substantives
Firstly, we define political advertising as any form of paid political advocacy for a political party, where campaigns fund social media platforms, influencers, and firms to advertise. We also define social media platforms as any online social website, some examples being facebook, X, and instagram. [Q1]
Second, let’s clarify a crucial question: How would we ban political advertising? Currently social media platforms have weak guardrails for deterring misinformation, despite many platforms having policies related to misinformation according to Rutgers professor Feldman in 2024. As the affirmative, we are not just advocating for a ban, but rather an effective one where regulations are enforced and tightened. 
So how do we solve? Two key pieces.
First, we would require political campaigns and platforms to sign legally-binding contracts necessitating no current and further paid advertising online. [SB2] Should there be a violation, candidates will be disqualified from running and legal consequences will be enacted for the campaigns as well as the profiting entities. Second, the house would allocate LLMs (large language models) to flag paid pre-existing political content on social media platforms to then have them reviewed and taken down if paid. [Q2] According to PPC 24, LLMS are especially efficient with flagging repetitive forms of content like advertisements, thus making them viable. 
Finally, burdens. For either side to prevail in today’s round, they must prove they adhere more to democratic values. The opposition must defend maintaining the status quo where political advertising runs rampant.
Substantive 1 is Minimizing Misinformation 
Crucially, what must be established is the purpose of political advertising. Political ads are specifically designed to help a candidate win an election, not to spread factual information. Because of the nature of social media, political disinformation unfortunately spreads incredibly quickly.
Two layers of analysis here
Firstly, is algorithmic bias. As Rutgers explains, the incentives of social media platforms, which are designed to maximize engagement, facilitate the spread of misinformation. Misleading content, especially when it has a partisan element, is often very effective at activating people’s emotions and getting them to “like” or share the content. This phenomena is facilitated particularly by social media algorithms. On all social media platforms, the content we see is geared towards what we’ve interacted with in the past. Indiana University analyzing political bias on X reports that “the political alignment of an initial friend on social media has a major impact on the structure of a user’s social network and their exposure to low-credibility sources”. As a result, users are often stuck in an echo chamber, where they are constantly consuming and engaging with misinformed content without even knowing they are getting exploited.
Secondly, is rewarding the use of inflammatory and provocative rhetoric. The Journal of Social Media in Society states that social media platforms like tikok, instagram, and X, “have the potential to influence political attitudes and behaviors” and is “more effective than traditional media…[to capture] the attention of young people”. This means politicians who are more aligned with the "influencer" title will gain more engagement. One example of this is shown by Trump’s posts, which include flashy slogans such as  “making America great again”, referencing an immigrant “invasion”, and emphasizing a need to remedy a “national emergency”. His online campaign gained him a massive, loyal fanbase.
The results of this are brutal: an immeasurable scope of misinformation floods the masses, and whatever follows cannot be foreseen. A notable example of this is the result of propaganda in the 2020 presidential election. In January of 2021, after Biden overtook Trump in the presidential election, Trump and fellow supporters took to social media, spreading false election fraud claims. The Trump campaign raised approximately $250 million, to propagate these false claims as found by CNN. Online outrage escalated to physical violence: the Capitol Hill riots of January 6th. Snopes notes that 5 died, and 174 police officers were injured in an attempt to put a stop to the rioters. This is not an isolated example. In the 2016 US election, Russia’s use of right-wing disinformation ads reached 130 million people. In the same year, Brexit Facebook ads misleadingly claimed the UK sent 350 million euros per week to the EU, ignoring rebates and EU spending in the UK. There is no savior to the plague of misinformation online. Americanbar.org affirms that lying in political advertisements is legal on social media, meaning politicians can spread headlines that are completely inaccurate. 